NEXT-12739 - Add dynamic content via AJAX calls (#233)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/storefront/add-dynamic-content-via-ajax-calls.md

> # Add dynamic content via ajax calls
> 
> This guide will show you how to add dynamic content to your storefront.
> It combines and builds upon the the guides about [adding custom Javascript](./add-custom-javascript.md) and [adding a custom controller](./add-custom-controller.md), so you should probably read them first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add dynamic content via ajax calls

## Overview

This guide will show you how to add dynamic content to your storefront.
It combines and builds upon the the guides about [adding custom Javascript](./add-custom-javascript.md) and [adding a custom controller](./add-custom-controller.md), so you should probably read them first.
```

## Setting up the Controller

For this guide we will use a very simple controller that returns a timestamp wrapped in the JSON format.

As mentioned before this guide builds up upon the [adding a custom controller](./add-custom-controller.md) guide.
This means that this article will only cover the differences between returning a template and a `JSON` response and making it accessible to `XmlHttpRequests`.

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\Routing\Annotation\RouteScope;
use Shopware\Storefront\Controller\StorefrontController;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\JsonResponse;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;

/**
 * @RouteScope(scopes={"storefront"})
 */
class ExampleController extends StorefrontController
{
   /**
    * @Route("/example", name="frontend.example.example", defaults={"XmlHttpRequest"=true}, methods={"GET"})
    */
    public function showExample(): JsonResponse
    {

>         return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => gmdate("Y-m-d\TH:i:s\Z")]);

Reviewer 2: According to php docs the timestamp parameter in `gmdate` is nullable since php 8.0. As some fellows are still on 7.2 or 7.4 regarding their projects, I suggest to change the snippet to `date(\DateTimeInterface::W3C)`

Author: ```suggestion
        return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => date(\DateTimeInterface::W3C)]);
```
So like this? I'm mainly a frontend developer and don't know much about php

Reviewer 2: Yes :)

Reviewer: Just a little suggestion ;) 

```suggestion
        return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => \date(\DateTimeInterface::W3C)]);
```

Reviewer 2: Good one :D

Reviewer: Wasn't it you, who created a huge pr for straightening these global references in shopware\platform ? :laughing: 
Since then, I'm having an eye for these :rofl:

Reviewer 2: I was … and I have been replaced by an automated tool :/ @mitelg 

Great to hear that I influenced at least one of you 😁

Reviewer 3: best would be using the `DateTime` object!

Author: make a suggestion and i'll use that

Reviewer 3: did that :blush:

Author: Ok i'll just trust you that it works

Reviewer 2: yeah sure :D the object is better

> ```php
> <?php declare(strict_types=1);
> 
> namespace SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller;
> 
> use Shopware\Core\Framework\Routing\Annotation\RouteScope;
> use Shopware\Storefront\Controller\StorefrontController;
> use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\JsonResponse;
> use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
> 
> /**
>  * @RouteScope(scopes={"storefront"})
>  */
> class ExampleController extends StorefrontController
> {
>    /**
>     * @Route("/example", name="frontend.example.example", defaults={"XmlHttpRequest"=true}, methods={"GET"})
>     */
>     public function showExample(): JsonResponse
>     {
>         return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => gmdate("Y-m-d\TH:i:s\Z")]);
>     }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="<plugin base>/Storefront/Controller/ExampleController.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\Routing\Annotation\RouteScope;
use Shopware\Storefront\Controller\StorefrontController;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\JsonResponse;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;

/**
 * @RouteScope(scopes={"storefront"})
 */
class ExampleController extends StorefrontController
{
   /**
    * @Route("/example", name="frontend.example.example", defaults={"XmlHttpRequest"=true}, methods={"GET"})
    */
    public function showExample(): JsonResponse
    {
        return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => gmdate("Y-m-d\TH:i:s\Z")]);
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}
``````

Reviewer: Pretty please do this for the rest of the code blocks aswell

> As you might have seen this controller isn't too different from the controller used in the before mentioned article.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As you might have seen this controller isn't too different from the controller used in the article mentioned before.
```

The route annotation has an added `defaults={"XmlHttpRequest"=true}` to allow XmlHttpRequest and it returns a `JsonResponse` instead of a normal `Response`.
Using a `JsonResponse` instead of a normal `Response` causes the data structures passed to it to be automatically turned into a `JSON` string.

> The following `services.xml` and `routes.xml` are identical to before mentioned article, but here they are for reference anyways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `services.xml` and `routes.xml` are identical as in the before mentioned article, but here they are for reference anyways:
```

> The following `services.xml` and `routes.xml` are identical to before mentioned article, but here they are for reference anyways:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following `services.xml` and `routes.xml` are identical to article mentioned before, but here they are for reference anyways:
```

Author: i took @lernhart suggestion for this

Reviewer 4: Please add mine as well, as they don't refer to the same error. :)

Author: It think the current sentence is correct, the code in the  preview above is just outdated.

> ```xml

Reviewer 5: Codeblock missing 😛

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<routes xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/routing"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/routing
        https://symfony.com/schema/routing/routing-1.0.xsd">

    <import resource="../../Storefront/Controller/**/*Controller.php" type="annotation" />
</routes>
```

> ```xml

Reviewer 5: Codeblock missing 😛

<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services" 
           xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
           xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

    <services>
        <service id="SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller\ExampleController" public="true">
            <call method="setContainer">
                <argument type="service" id="service_container"/>
            </call>
        </service>
    </services>
</container>
```

## Preparing the Plugin

> Now we have to add a `plugin` to display the timestamp we get from our controller.

Reviewer: This is not your fault, but i **HATE** the fact, that we called that javascript stuff "plugin".

Maybe write the following, to distinguish it better from the casual `plugin`, which is an extension to the whole shopware stack, to prevent some newcomers from being confused
```suggestion
Now we have to add a `Storefront (or maybe JavaScript?) plugin` to display the timestamp we get from our controller.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Now we have to add a `Storefront Javascript plugin` to display the timestamp we get from our controller.
```
I'm calling it a Storefront Javascript plugin, now

Again this builds upon the [adding custom Javascript](./add-custom-javascript.md),

> so if you don't already now what storefront `plugins` are go ahead and read that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so if you don't already know what storefront `plugins` are, go ahead and read that.
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer 5: Codeblock missing 😛

import HttpClient from 'src/service/http-client.service';
import Plugin from 'src/plugin-system/plugin.class';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export default class AjaxPlugin extends Plugin {
    init() {
        // initalize the HttpClient
        this._client = new HttpClient();

        // get refernces to the dom elements
        this.button = this.el.children['ajax-button'];
        this.textdiv = this.el.children['ajax-display'];

        // register the events
        this._registerEvents();
    }

    _registerEvents() {
        // fetch the timestamp, when the button is clicked
        this.button.onclick = this._fetch.bind(this);
    }

    _fetch() {

>         // make the  network request and call the `_setContent` function as a callback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // make the network request and call the `_setContent` function as a callback
```

        this._client.get('/example', this._setContent.bind(this), 'application/json', true)
    }

    _setContent(data) {
        // parse the response and set the `textdiv.innerHTML` to the timestamp
        this.textdiv.innerHTML = JSON.parse(data).timestamp;
    }
}
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Adding the Template

> The only thing that is now left to do is to provide an template for the storefront plugin to hook into:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only thing that is now left, is to provide a template for the storefront plugin to hook into:
```

Reviewer 4: `that is left now` instead of `that is now left`

> ```twig

Reviewer 5: Codeblock missing 😛

{% sw_extends '@Storefront/storefront/page/content/index.html.twig' %}

{% block cms_content %}
	<div>
		<h1>Swag AJAX Example</h1>

		<div data-ajax-helper>
			<div id="ajax-display"></div>
			<button id="ajax-button">Button</button>
		</div>
	</div>
{% endblock %}
```

## Next steps

> The controller we used in this example isn't awfully useful, but this pattern of providing and using data is generally the same.

Reviewer 4: Too negative... Can you avid this `awfully useful`? Maybe:

```suggestion
The controller we used in this example doesn't do a lot of things, but this pattern of providing and using data is generally the same in all controllers of this kind.
```

> Even is you use it to fetch data form the database and in that case you probably want to learn more about the DAL [here](../../../../concepts/framework/data-abstraction-layer.md).

Reviewer: Something's wrong with this sentence's structure

## Setting up the Controller

For this guide we will use a very simple controller that returns a timestamp wrapped in the JSON format.

As mentioned before this guide builds up upon the [adding a custom controller](./add-custom-controller.md) guide.
This means that this article will only cover the differences between returning a template and a `JSON` response and making it accessible to `XmlHttpRequests`.

{% code title="<plugin base>/Storefront/Controller/ExampleController.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller;

use Shopware\Core\Framework\Routing\Annotation\RouteScope;
use Shopware\Storefront\Controller\StorefrontController;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\JsonResponse;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;

/**
 * @RouteScope(scopes={"storefront"})
 */
class ExampleController extends StorefrontController
{
   /**
    * @Route("/example", name="frontend.example.example", defaults={"XmlHttpRequest"=true}, methods={"GET"})
    */
    public function showExample(): JsonResponse
    {

>         return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => \date(\DateTimeInterface::W3C)]);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        return new JsonResponse(['timestamp' => (new \DateTime())->format(\DateTimeInterface::W3C)]);
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<routes xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/routing"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/routing
        https://symfony.com/schema/routing/routing-1.0.xsd">

    <import resource="../../Storefront/Controller/**/*Controller.php" type="annotation" />
</routes>
```
{% endcode %}

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/config/routes.xml" %}
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services" 
           xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
           xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

    <services>
        <service id="SwagBasicExample\Storefront\Controller\ExampleController" public="true">
            <call method="setContainer">
                <argument type="service" id="service_container"/>
            </call>
        </service>
    </services>
</container>
```
{% endcode %}

## Preparing the Plugin

Now we have to add a `Storefront Javascript plugin` to display the timestamp we get from our controller.

> Again this builds upon the [adding custom Javascript](./add-custom-javascript.md),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Again this is built upon the [adding custom Javascript](./add-custom-javascript.md) article,
```

> so if you don't already know what storefront `plugins` are, go ahead and read that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
so if you don't already know what storefront `plugins` are, hold on and read it first.
```
